Abha Thakor: Well, thank you for for joining me and I'm gonna see if i can minimize that window and hopefully
that won't disturb anybody who's trying to read
the text as well. So, um, it's lovely to be here
for WordPress Accessibility Day. We've got two
cameras running, we have a number of people in our
team and in my work organization who are going
to be lip reading today and they're also doing a
live translation because it's translation week
for for WordPress as well so um you'll have to
be very understanding that i will be looking
at two cameras at one point just so that we can
help those people who are struggling a little
bit yesterday when they were trying to follow
um in the practice, okay. So I'm Abha Thakor. I'm from NonStopNews and NonStopBusinessSupport and
I'm here to show you why you should love captions
and how you could become a subtitling champion
we've prepared a link for those that I've said
who are, who are lip reading and I'll try not to
to move too far away from the the text and the
jargon that they've already inputted into the
AI system so that they can have an
easier time of translating us today.
So, we're going to look at "to caption or not to
caption" but in my view actually there is really no
question. We need to be doing this. I'm not going to
be focusing on the how but more on the why. So why
are we talking about subtitling today? Well, simply,
if you do not have a finished video product unless
you have subtitles. And hopefully through this
presentation, you'll see why that is so important.
This streaming video has increasingly accounted
for a large proportion of all internet usage.
The most recent survey by statistia - a company
which researches key aspects of business data
worldwide - found that video represented up to 95% of
all internet usage in some of the countries they
sampled. Research since continues to show that in
most countries the trend for online streaming of
video has had a big growth trajectory, During
the pandemic, not surprisingly, it has soared.
The effects of the COVID situation have
resulted in a further explosion of demand
for online streaming access from businesses, from
social organizations, special interest groups,
and private individuals across the world. So
online video consumption really cannot be ignored
by businesses or other organizations. It
needs to be part of your marketing strategy,
your engagement, your knowledge
management, and ultimately your sales.
In increasingly crowded marketplace and with more
sophisticated production software now available,
it makes no sense to omit that final part
of what should be in all of our checklists,
and I hope after today you will have this
in your checklist: subtitling and captions.
First, let's have a look at
what these things really are.
That is, of course, from being
life-changing for some of our colleagues,
vital learning tools, and increasingly
essential for search engines.
Basically, if you don't have that
subtitle this is what is going to happen:
People won't be able to access
it in a variety of mediums,
and search engines certainly can't. We'll be
talking more about that through this presentation.
Now, we often come across two terms of subtitles
and captions as if they mean the same thing.
But there are actually three terms that
are widely used in the media production.
Subtitles, open captions, and closed captions as you
can see on the screen. That's what the technical
definition is. They do not actually mean the same
thing. At the moment there are three main types.
We'll come to images and the new type
of captioning that is coming in later on.
Fundamentally they all mean a visual on-screen
text representation of the words heard in an audio
track, or a video, or your broadcast. You'll often
hear - hear these terms interchangeably, but you do
need to know which of the terms that you actually
need for your product and your organization,
depending on the environment, and the ecosystem,
the regulatory framework that you're operating in.
So captions come in two varieties - open or
closed. Both go further than simple subtitling.
They not only represent the spoken words, but they
include text descriptions of all non-verbal sounds
which may form part of that presentation. So
captions amplify the dialogue, the narrative,
with descriptions of sounds that would be included
through the subtitling of that spoken language.
So, for example: woman coughs loudly;
sound of breaking glass; dog barks.
(I always wait for my dog to actually see that as a
command.); doorbell rings; music plays. This is to try
and get as much closely to the atmosphere and feel
of the audio track. It's much more interesting for
the person who can't access the words or the sound,
to have a better idea of what is being represented.
Providing captions can have a greater
implication on production time,
and costs and subtitling. But both continue
to become easier to create and synchronize
through the development of enabling software
and artificial intelligence. As a firm,
we do a lot of work in this area, and it's so
wonderful to see it becoming more accessible.
I've mentioned two forms of captions. Open
captions are captions embedded in the video at
production stage, and are on screen permanently. The
viewer cannot choose whether they appear or not.
We've - I've kept this slide up, because when I've
done this presentation before, people have said
they felt it was easier for them to, to
understand the difference when we have this up. So
..um, closed captions are interactive in what they
can be turned off or on or off at the choice of
the viewer. A quick toggle of the remote control
and, hey, presto - captions on, captions off. A bit like
the mute button for audio volume. Captions can be a
legal requirement in some jurisdictions for videos
intended to be broadcast in public, and they're
enforced through the various countries legal
systems. As ever I would urge you to look
at the regulations in your own jurisdiction  -
and you may find these in a variety of
places, from broadcasting legislation,
equality, anti-discrimination regulations, to
communications and media laws - but also in the
ethos and values of your own organization. The penalties for infringement can be high,
and it's worth including the captions and
subtitles in your initial brief, in your scoping.
In some locations require - the requirements
apply to both public bodies and organizations
with registered charitable status, so do your
homework. Check it what it is that you need.
So, apart from legal compliance where it
applies, why, why should we provide subtitles
and captions? Well, subtitling is a way to make that
video material more accessible. It actually makes
it possible for some one with a hearing difficulty
to hear the message behind the video at all.
But there are a lot of myths about subtitling and
why you shouldn't do it, so hopefully today we'll
debunk some of those myths. Hearing disabilities
can be caused by a large variety of reasons, from
disabilities from birth, trauma, injury related, and
from actually just getting older, as well as health
related issues. They may be temporary, they may be
permanent. We have a number of colleagues in my
work and in the WordPress community who have some kind of hearing impairment. In our work in both of
these areas we've been running awareness surveys
around what people think subtitles are for. Our
panel found that there were myths about subtitling
that continue to exist, and continue to be shared.
People think that it's outdated.
They think that when someone appears on a
video, words pop up automatically underneath
as soon as someone clicks a button. They
thought that subtitling is there for people
who do not have a computer with sound - you will
be surprised how often that comes up as a reason!
People also think that accessibility
does not relate to video.
And the one that we increasingly
hear - it's for old people, or for
people who really aren't our customers, so
therefore we don't need to worry about it.
The American National Association of
the Deaf estimate - well, I'm waiting
for my slides to catch up on your
screens - so, I'm hoping that they have.
Um, so hopefully you've got, you've got a screen
that shows a blue screen and orange, but if
not I'll talk over it. The American National
Association of the Deaf estimates that five to
six percent of the global population has some form
of hearing impairment. That's, at the time of their
investigation, translates to around 350 million
people, who, assuming they have access to technology
in order to watch streamed video, would be able
to benefit from subtitling or captioning.
Even allowing for a proportion of those
not having the means to access the internet
there is still a massive potential audience to
cater for. On the 1st of March this year (2020)
the World Health Organization estimated that 466
million people have had a disabling hearing loss.
It predicted the figure rising to 900
million by 2050 - to 900 million by 2050,
unless concerted action to address some of the
preventable causes was taken. Hopefully you've
now got the, that figure on screen. Just, let's
just think about that figure. That's a predicted
900 million people by 2050 who could miss out
on your messages, online promotions, and offers,
and that's just from people who can't access
your message because they have a hearing issue.
On top of that, you have all those people who can't
access the message for a variety of other reasons.
Let's have a look at some of those reasons.
These are just some of the ways that subtitling
or captions can be used and are being used.
Subtitles facilitate the translation
of the original language medium
into other languages. Today, I've
provided subtitles which are being
translated into a number of languages as part
of WordPress translation celebrations this week.
To get your talks and videos used around the world,
make sure you add subtitles, as it makes it so much
easier, and in some cases actually makes it
possible for others to translate the text
into their own languages. This might be that they
translate in their heads as they watch along,
or that they use apps when they're
reviewing what you have told them.
For those of us whose first language
is English it can be hard to comprehend -
comprehend how much this translating function
of subtitles matters in everyday life.
Subtitling television programs,
films, and online video entertainment
is much more common in countries
where English is not the main language.
The need for these language tools to be part
of business plans and marketing campaigns
is frankly much better understood in many of
those countries. We also need to remember: we live
in a multicultural and multilingual world.
Your customers and stakeholders in your
target locations are likely to come
from different language backgrounds
and have varying levels of fluency. Trends show
that the world's increasing appetite for online
learning is matched by its demand for being
able to access videos while on the move.
Train and bus and travel with improvements in
wi-fi have seen commuter journeys turn into
mini classrooms for one. With noise cancelling
headsets creating the complete study experience.
In our current times, audiences often watch and
want to watch video content in busy households,
particularly during COVID. Or in bed, and don't
wish to disturb other people. Much of this learning
and assimilation is only maximized through having
subtitles. They also cut through the noise that
surrounds us on public transport, shared offices,
or wherever we choose to access the information.
There may be times when it's helpful to
watch a video individually or as a group without
the sound on in places where background noise may
make it impossible to have sound at audible levels.
Please think about those occasions
where you have found that.
and how much more useful you found
it, if there had been subtitles.
Many people do not have the sound on on
their mobile devices while traveling or in
offices. Increasingly, content is being accessed,
videos are being played on those mobile devices.
A colleague of mine in the
subtitling campaign, Sean Cunningham  -
Siobhan Cunningham from the
Yoast Academy's e-learning team,
she, um, she always explains: it is about the word.
If you see someone talk you might take in some
of what they're saying, but by having subtitles
and being able to follow the words that makes it
easier for you to follow what they're saying,
and for your brain to prepa.. and - and you'll have
to bear with me, I need to just check.The lip
reading people just asked me to pause for a moment.
Okay. And it makes it easier
for your brain to process it,
and remember it, and better
understand what you are learning.
She said that if she sees words that tell her
about what the person is talking about, she's
more likely to listen, more likely to stay, more
likely to finish the video. We all know. We've
all seen the statistics of how long people stay on
video. People's attention spans can be extended if
we help them through subtitles. If we're not in
quiet environments but need to access learning
material online, it may be the only time of the day
that we can spend our own development or keeping
up with training, that is now essential for our
everyday work. All those really great talks from
WordCamps that you would like people all over
the world to access? Subtitle them. Someone might
then be able to access them at a time that suits
them - an environment that they are currently in.
From an education and training perspective,
provision of visual representations
of technical terms, jargon, and acronyms
allow for the reinforcement of learning.
The three key learning styles that
I'm sure you've heard of elsewhere
are visual, auditory, and kinetic. And you
should hopefully see these now on screen.
That basically means that people learn
visually through seeing, auditory through
hearing, and kinetic through doing. All of these
styles of learning are better supported when
the visual picture and the audio commentary is
reinforced with a visual underscoring of text.
Even without the express intention of educating,
provision of subtitles can even subliminally
help speakers of other languages acquire or
appreciate subtleties of the original language.
Usage, slang, the idiomatic phrases
we all use, spelling and much more.
The automated transcription software service
Sonix has found that 80 percent of all social
media videos are viewed with the sound off.
A statistic which might make you think that
doing that defeats the object of the medium. But
be that as it may, it also poses an opportunity
to reach that switch off audience more effectively
by using subtitles. Being able to read information
to absorb the content helps us to understand,
to respond, explore, and apply that knowledge.
Subtitles really do reinforce learning. I've
worked in learning and CPD for nearly 20
years or more now, and every time we have
subtitles, I know the learners are learning
more, they're accessing more, they're retaining
it more, and they're being able to apply it.
Subtitling can now be
achieved increasingly quickly
and economically through newer
technology and online tools.
Please try and keep that in your minds and
think about how you would want to access content.
People often say "is a picture worth a
thousand words." Well, if you can't hear
the words of a talking picture and
then no clues of what is being said,
how is that person going to take in your
messages? How are they going to learn?
Do you really want them to
just be watching paint dry?
And for the people in the audience who are going
to tell me that watching paint dry is interesting...
then we'll have that discussion after the talk.
So... search. Search loves subtitles, and for a lot of
people they think, well, why would it? Because search
is an index. Video, well, Googlebot and and other
spiders which are crawling around - (I always have to
shiver when I think about these spiders),
um, they're incessantly indexing web pages.
They can't, they can't watch those moving images
and they can't listen to the audio - not yet, not
really, but they can hone in on captions. Videos
with closed captions rank higher on Google search
than those without according to a study carried
out by US broadcaster American Digital Networks.
In addition, some advanced searches
allow for more specific searching
of closed captions. It goes without saying
that additional traffic directed to your site
by a high search ranking, will lead to an increase
in traffic to other landing pages or content
you want to bring to the party. The benefits
for engagement and SEO combined make a powerful
argument for ensuring your online videos are
posted with accurate, legible, closed captions.
Legible I'm gonna stop on for a moment. Please, if
you've not sure about how to do legible, there have
been other talks during this accessibility
session which will explain how to do that,
how many words to have on screen, the font sizes.
Please, if you're going to create captions, don't
create them so small and all jumbled
together that people can't access them.
The Scottish audience development company um
Culture Republic it runs workshops in captioning
and they assert that adding captions to YouTube
videos has shown to increase completed viewings
by around seven percent. That also helps
your search engines, ratings and it helps
people find your content, stay on your content, and
refer people. They also quote the research which
shows that 85 percent of Facebook views occur
with muted audio. Again this backs up the videos,
that this, the um, Sonicx statistic. Um, I will, I
will just apologize I'm running a. running a
temperature at the moment, so I'm having a little
bit of difficulty trying to to, um, to focus on the
on the mouse on the screen. So apologies
if the screens aren't changing quick enough.
Basically, captions serve as a
reminder to the viewer that we are now
at a segment of particular interest
and to switch full attention back to it.
Reinforced messaging through the use of captions
is so important. If the consumer is going to behave
in a selective manner, we need to ensure he or
she knows when to exercise that selectiveness.
Captioning allows that to happen better. We've
talked about the bots, but just to reinforce it -
Search, search, search. They don't understand
it. If they've got no value they will move on.
I'm going to take you down to what's
happening now with artificial intelligence. As
with all things tech related, times move on and
processes are in a state of constant evolution.
Captioning for the last 10 years or so has used
differing technologies including automated speech
recognition known as ASR. ASR is a predictive tool.
It generates word sequences from an audio signal.
The result is not always a totally
accurate rendition of what is being said.
The nature of live streaming, especially,
where conversation is interactive,
presents challenges to ASR. Not all speakers will
be clear enough in their delivery. Background
noises in their environment can seem like a
verbal sound to be represented in captions to ASR.
How well has it been taught to
differentiate between sounds.
If discussions get heated, people may speak over
each other or cut another speaker off abruptly.
Again, resulting in a muddled set of captions.
In fac,t you don't even need that to happen -
you can just have lots of different voices
that are similar and ASR may not pick it up.
Strong regional or national accents, or varieties
of inflection from different speakers can confuse
ASR, and result in misrepresentation in captioning.
I'm sure we've all sat through presentations, even
TV programs, where the captioning has been so
obviously incorrect it can almost be comical.
Except for those who rely on it. For
them it really is not a laughing matter.
You'll all probably be aware of the variety
of accuracies and inaccuracies delivered by
today's range of streaming platforms in terms of
captioning. The consequences of misrepresentation
via captioning are the same as the consequences
of mistranslating between two languages.
To be effective, the ASR system, like Web
Captioner and others, needs to have been prepped
with a wide vocabulary and specialist words. It
can also be taught to learn in multiple languages,
and any specialist acronyms, jargon, tech
terminology, and so on which it might encounter.
If it doesn't recognize the content of the source
signal, it cannot predict the patterns of words. You
will sometimes see a "next best" word or phrase
appear, which of course will often make a nonsense
version of the original. So one of the most often
questions I get is, "Oh, I've added AI to my streams,
I've added, um, an automatic captioner, that's all
I need to do." No. You need to train it. You need
to help it. If it helps, think of it as your pet
dog. If it doesn't know what the instruction is,
it won't know what to do. If it's never heard
the word "JavaScript" it won't know what to say.
During the past year, the huge jump in demand
for online conferencing streaming due to
COVID restrictions has put a greater demand on
existing automated speech recognition systems.
AI engineers, we've all been working really
as fast as we can to try and make things
easier, to make things available. But
a plea: help us do so. Help us test
what is out there. Help us - tell us where it
doesn't work, because then we can change it.
The focus shouldn't just be
on speeding up the process,
it needs to also be about improving accuracy.
FaceBook live has been using um AI. It's been do,
it's been doing away with one third of
the components of a basic ASR system.
And train, so basically, it's been getting
rid of the pronunciation lexicon and it's
training the part which identifies the individual
constituent sounds of a word, to directly predict
the characters of a word. A language model then
determines the interrelationship of these words.
Say, that frequency of use and words which are
commonly strung together becomes what it thinks
you're going to be saying. The slimming down
and improvement of accuracy in ASR was achieved
through using tools, like PyTorch, was an open
source machine learning library derived from Torch
library. Please do have a look at it. There are
lots and lots of ways you can help improve that.
Captions open up even more accessibility options.
We've already talked about the impact of captions
for translation. Another development
brought through artificial intelligence
is the visual images being created based
on the descriptive text contained in that
caption. This is going to be our next generation
of captioning tools. It's in its very early stages.
We have AI which can produce captions
from data contained in images, but
only this week the Allen Institute for AI
announced it had developed an AI which produces
imagery created from those text captions. The
results, for those who may not have seen them,
are so far restricted from looking like
Picasso might have knocked up in a hurry,
but their principle is that they generate an
image. They allow somebody who may not be able
to understand without an image added to those
words the full context of what is being said.
Or they may not be able to process it
because their neural processing is different.
This is going to take what we can do with captions
to a whole new realm. It's going to make even more
accessible information. But if you don't have
captions, if you haven't introduced subtitling
into your business plans already, when this
technology develops you won't be able to use it,
because it relies on having those subtitles in the
first place. Eventually, the work that is happening
on these developments is that the final image
will be of photographic quality with color, scale,
and proportion all correctly represented. So when
I'm talking about an apple and how that relates
to a concept i'm describing, that would also appear.
If I'm talking about a flowchart, eventually that
would also appear. Again, it requires us to help
teach it, but that is where the technology is going.
A simplified explanation of that process is that
a machine learning algorithm has been trained to
recognize conceptual connections between language
and visual data. An illustration of this would be
that given that text "a clock tower in the middle
of town," the technology produces an image of a
taller tower-like structure with a clock at
the top surrounded by less high buildings.
Suddenly, people are receiving the spoken word,
the written word, and a visual representation.
Just think how powerful that
combination is going to be.
We already have tools like Web Captioner.
If you are doing an event and you don't
have resources to purchase live captioning
done by humans, which is a preferred option,
please look at tools like Web Captioner. There are
other ones on the market, too. They use Google APIs
generated to, to create captions, but invest the
time. Invest the time in actually training it.
We tested this in a number of WordCamps including
WordCamp Dublin last year, and we asked all
speakers to practice saying a couple of sentences
from their talk into Web Captioner. Picking
the right option that successfully
produced the text that they were saying.
We also asked them to tell us the words that and
the jargon that would not be necessarily known
or that may with a strong accent sound slightly
different to what Web Captioner had learnt
already. We inputted that text into Web Captioner,
and it was wonderful to see that in most cases
that improved the captions that we produced
to a 98% level. It didn't get everything -
it still had issues. "Huddersfield" is always going
to get - be heard wrong. It's just one of those words
that captioners - an auto captioner - just does not
get right, but it's a huge step forward. Since
WordCamp Dublin there has been much more
developments and tests in tools like this.
Web Captioner has, in the last few weeks, released
a beta version which you can test, and you can add
to things like Zoom, to other video conferencing
materials. We're currently doing tests on this
in the WordPress Marketing and WordPress TV teams
as well as tests with other facilities like AWS,
and how we can use auto-generated captions
from, from those facilities to then correct
and start subtitling more and more videos,
and with your help making that possible.
OBS, which is a open source software also now has
a beta version of captioning. So, if you are doing
a talk and you're going through OBS software
for that talk, and connecting that to Zoom,
StreamYard, whatever you're using. There is a
beta version that you can now enable and you can,
and that live auto captioning can appear. The more
people use it, the more it will improve, but we need
people to use it, test it, to give feedback, correct
it. We need more accents to do it, we need people
with more accessibility issues, to actually try
the software. In my work, we have a number of people
who have hearing difficulties who are
actually now testing some of this software.
I focused this talk on the why part of captioning.
If you've been convinced - and I hope you have -
that this is something you really should be doing,
I suggest you look at the presentation slides
from yesterday's speaker, Meryl Evans, who's
given a handy list of tools which you can use.
People don't like being in
the dark. Help put the light on.
You can also do that, and make a difference by
becoming a subtitling champion. It really is easy.
I will guarantee you will learn a new skill,
and we will help you learn that new skill.
You can also play a part in knowledge sharing,
and the skills that you learn, and the
knowledge that you share, is much wider
than the WordPress environment, the open source
environment. It can make a difference in your
products, your company, your culture. It can make
a difference in how we deal with information
and people's access to it. Please invest in
subtitling. Please don't put up half thought
about solutions. Work out how it's going to work.
For a lot of the, um, the camps, today's event, too,
they also have another option where you can read
subtitles that can be changed into different fonts.
YouTube subtitling for live feed is really
difficult to read. It's very difficult to process
if you have any kind of neuroprocessing issue.
It can be very difficult if you just wear glasses.
Support the WP diversity and tech accessibility.
It will give you huge rewards, but it also means
that the people who really need the technology
don't have to be making that call themselves
all the time. This should be something that we do
from scratch, that we include in all our planning.
Finally, tell your speakers when
you're planning a WordCamp,
or any kind of online event, or even
in-person event when we're allowed to again.
Help them understand about providing text even
after the event so subtitles can be done quicker.
Help them even commit to subtitling something
of their own. With the auto captioning tools
that now exist it doesn't have to take a huge
amount of time. Sometimes, where it takes time is
because of unfamiliarity with where the speakers
going, what they're talking about, and the jargon.
Please come and join our campaign. You
can make a difference for inclusion,
diversity, and user experience. It will improve
your organization's messaging and reach.
It will make it different.
It may even help you one day.
Thank you. You can find me on @NonStopNewsUK on
Twitter. If anyone, i know i have had a lot of
questions that have come in on on twitter as well
already, um i will make sure i answer those in the
next few days. And i had a request for a couple
of people who'd like to do an interactive session
learning how to use Amara and we have got those
planned, too. So please do contact me on Twitter on
@NonStopNewsUK, on Slack on abhanonstopnewsuk and, we will connect you with those things.
Amanda: Okay, thank you so much Abha. That was wonderful.
I'm so full of information. We really appreciate
you sharing your expertise and breaking down the
kinds of captions and subtitles, how essential they
are to learning. Um, there was a lot of conversation
in the the YouTube stream chat, too, and we do have
some questions, that we have less, a little less
than 10 minutes to get to, so um if you don't mind...
Io the first question that i'm going to
ask, I think the first question was, I think
mostly answered in the chat, but they,
their comment was: "It's very interesting
about non-English speaking countries
having adopted captions at a greater rate.
Which countries do you feel set the standard
in terms of subtitles." Abha: The, the Spanish film
industry has actually been really good
at this, and there has been some working
with the, with the US as well, which is it's been
very good in terms of how subtitles are presented.
And, and, I think that has been a model that lots
of other smaller broadcasting things have taken on.
So, in terms of actual conferencing, the, where
countries have a regulatory requirement
to caption, it is worth having a look at the
processes that they use, because they tend to
be more tested, and they have tended to look at the
various options and how they can do that. So, again
America has had a lot of regulation on that. Um,
some of the big charities have also done some ,
some work on that and I can share some links
after this talk, as well. Amanda: Okay, perfect, thank you.
Um, the next question is: "SEO and YouTube are hidden
gems for building our online footprint, as you
uh, mentioned, and are there, um, sorry are there
rules for effective content for web pages, links,
etc., for captioning, to help videos rank higher,
or rank more?" Abha: There's a lot of work going on at
the moment um in terms of readability of captions,
and there's some work that's been pioneering in, in
Switzerland about actually how algorithms can
give a higher rating to captions that are readable.
So, captions that come in huge blocks of text with
no punctuation, would be, would have a lower, um
reach. And so there are some testing that's
going on with a couple of the, the big providers,
for how that can be be more promoted. And you'll
notice that some automatic translation things,
particularly YouTube, misses out punctuation. And
say, when people are then watching the video back,
actually the, the bots are not understanding what's
being said, because there's no punctuation to
help them. So, if you put punctuation in, that does
increase the searchability of that, and the ranking.
Amanda: Okay, great, now that's helpful, helpful to know.
Okay, got a little more than five minutes. Um,
make sure if you do have any other questions, um,
to throw them in the chat. But the next question
for you, Abha, of that, is: "What is your opinion in
delaying audio and video signal at live events in
order to give more time to live transcribers or AI
tools to be correct with the subtitles or captions,
and deliver them synchronized?" Abha: I think it's
a really big problem. I think, just looking at
today's, I know my screen over here, which has been
live, has been quite behind what I've been doing.
A lot of the, um, the software like OBS has a
real issue with this, because it creates a delay
between video and, um, and what you're actually
saying, which causes a difficulty for anybody
who's lip reading, because they're lip
reading something that is then out of context
with what's behind them, or what you're actually
trying to emphasize, so they could see an emphasis
on something that is actually no longer
being talked about. So, um, I think that
as events, and as we become more online events,
we need to think about the, putting a delay in.
But we also need to do some simpler things,
like encouraging, um, text to be available.
The, the captioners will work a lot quicker
if they know what jargon is going to be used.
So, Word, WordCamp London, our live captioners are,
um, very accurate. And one of the reasons for that
accuracy is because they have the jargon, and
the terminology, and, it's quite often, the talk
words from similar speakers, and that means that
they don't have to build in that extra delay for
everything to catch up again. It still doesn't
avoid the internet delay that you will have,
with video, but there are easy fixes most of the
software, particularly the paid-for software, does
actually allow you to compensate for that delay.
And I think there is an expectation now that, um,
particularly in the commercial world, and maybe
it needs to come to the, the open source, too,
is that if you're putting on an event,
help train your speakers in how to do that.
Because otherwise, you will have people who are,
regardless of what you do in regards to the
delay that you put in, their camera may still be
adding in several seconds of the delay in addition.
Amanda: Right. Okay, okay, thank you for that response.